The term bitcoin is used a lot.
But it's a little unclear sometimes what it means.
It's mostly known as a cryptocurrency,
but there's a lot more to it than that.
It is generally an umbrella term used to describe everything about bitcoin.
But aside from the currency,
there are actually two very distinct functions of bitcoin to understand,
and in this video, we'll explore these two functions.
Bitcoin as a network,
and bitcoin as a software.
We'll help clear up some of the confusion,
and discuss how each of these two, work together.
So, the term bitcoin specifically refers to
the network of bitcoin users creating and validating transactions.
Aside from this network,
there's a software behind the bitcoin that makes it all work,
and this, is known as Bitcoin Core.
Bitcoin Core, is an implementation of bitcoin that
encompasses all the software behind bitcoin,
that allows the network to function.
This is where all the developer tools environments exist.
Initially, this software was published under the name bitcoin.
But as the network grew,
it became more important to make a distinction between the network, and the software.
So, the software was renamed to Bitcoin Core,
to clear this confusion.
Through its history, it's been called
Bitcoin-QT and it's sometimes referred to as the Satoshi client.
So if you see these names anywhere,
Keep in mind that these refer to same thing.
Previously in this program,
we focused on Bitcoin as a network.
But throughout this lesson,
we'll transition to Bitcoin Core,
and start to explore the tools available to you as a Bitcoin developer.
There are a few essential features of Bitcoin Core, that we'll discuss.
First, the Bitcoin Core transaction verification engine.
This connects the Bitcoin network as a full node
allowing you to verify transactions happening in the Bitcoin network.
Another feature of Bitcoin Core,
is the ability to explore and validate the entire Bitcoin blockchain,
which is a history of all those Bitcoin transactions that have taken place.
Finally, it provides a cryptocurrency wallet,
that allows you to transfer Bitcoins.
As a developer, you'll interact with these features using
the command line interface in the Bitcoin Core debug console.
The debug console, is a powerful tool that
allows you to interact with data on the bitcoin blockchain.
And after getting up to speed with your own environments,
you'll spend a lot of time exploring data in this tool.
As a developer, you also get access to other networks,
where you can test bitcoin applications in
an environment that mimics the features of a live network.
And understanding these features,
will allow you to get set up,
and start running as a Bitcoin Core developer.
We'll learn all about these features,
and how to implement them,
throughout the rest of this lesson.